Okay.
So in this lesson, I want to introduce a special type available in TypeScript.
And it is the any type the any type allows for any kind of value.
So let me give you a quick example.
Let me have a variable here called a chameleon.
And what I'm going to do is use type annotation to give it the any type and then I'll assign it an initial
value of five.
So just like the word, any means anything at all, the same idea here, we can now use chameleon like
any type.
So for example, I can take Chameleon and I can reassign it to a string of hello and then I can take
chameleon and I can reassign it to a boolean of true.
And in the next line I can assign chameleon to an array of numbers, and then I can assign chameleon
to an object.
Right.
And for example, if I tried to take chameleon, which is now an object and I try to call the push method,
you'll notice it's not going to raise an error, even though push is not a legitimate method on an object,
but only on an array.
So the any type is generally considered an anti pattern.
It's a bad idea in TypeScript, and the obvious reason why is because it defeats the entire purpose
of TypeScript, right?
When you use the any type, you're basically turning TypeScript into JavaScript.
This is totally valid code right here, especially on the right.
This is totally valid code in JavaScript and this is the kind of code that would lead to an error.
And the whole point is TypeScript can help you catch these errors, but only if you tell it what type.
If TypeScript knows that you do not have an array, then it knows that push is not a valid method.
Right?
So with that said, if this is a bad thing to do, why this typescript allow it?
Well, because we need some kind of escape hatch.
Sometimes you may be working on a feature and you just need to get a working solution up and running
before you want to go back and add types later.
Right.
Sometimes TypeScript will not compile at all and you just want to get the app working in your browser,
for example.
Right.
So we need some kind of escape hatch.
We need a way that we can just tell TypeScript, Hey, just forget about this, just pretend they can
be anything and just go with the flow and I'll deal with any errors as they come up.
So we need obviously a little bit of flexibility in a language to allow us as developers to be productive.
Sometimes we're working on a budget, sometimes we're working against the clock, etc. So it's a good
thing that any exists in language, but it's generally a bad idea if you use it excessively, so only
use it in special circumstances.
Another example I can give you is when you simply don't know the type and you need to kind of do some
research and figure it out and you just need to move forward, right?
There's certain scenarios where you just need a little cheat code, if you will, to get by.
And that's what any is.
Right.
This type defeats the purpose of TypeScript, so you should try to avoid using it as much as you can.
However, it is always available there if you need it.
That's all there is to cover in this lesson.
So I will see you in the next one.